Update release notes draft to version v1.36.0-alpha.1 (#2957)
kubernetes/sig-release: releases/release-1.36/release-notes/release-notes-draft.md

- Kube-proxy now correctly handles the case where a pod IP gets assigned to
  a newly-created pod when the pod that previously had that IP has been
  terminated but is not yet fully deleted. ([#135593](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135593), [@danwinship](https://github.com/danwinship)) [SIG Network]
- Kubeadm: Fixed a bug where `kubeadm upgrade` failed if the content of the `/var/lib/kubelet/kubeadm-flags.env` file was `KUBELET_KUBEADM_ARGS=""`. ([#136127](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136127), [@carlory](https://github.com/carlory)) [SIG Cluster Lifecycle]
- Kubeadm: Changed `kubeadm join` to wait for the etcd learner member to start before promoting it. ([#136014](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136014), [@SataQiu](https://github.com/SataQiu)) [SIG Cluster Lifecycle]

> - Kubeadm: When applying user-provided overrides using `extraArgs`, the resulting list of arguments is no longer sorted alpha-numerically. Only default arguments are sorted, while overrides preserve their order. This allows finer control for flags where order matters, such as `--service-account-issuer` for `kube-apiserver`. ([#135400](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135400), [@neolit123](https://github.com/neolit123)) [SIG Cluster Lifecycle]

Reviewer: The adverbial form is **alphanumerically**.
```suggestion
- Kubeadm: When applying user-provided overrides using `extraArgs`, the resulting list of arguments is no longer sorted alphanumerically. Only default arguments are sorted, while overrides preserve their order. This allows finer control for flags where order matters, such as `--service-account-issuer` for `kube-apiserver`. ([#135400](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135400), [@neolit123](https://github.com/neolit123)) [SIG Cluster Lifecycle]
```

- Locked the `DisableNodeKubeProxyVersion` feature gate to enabled by default. ([#136673](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136673), [@HirazawaUi](https://github.com/HirazawaUi)) [SIG CLI and Network]
- Removed the `WatchFromStorageWithoutResourceVersion` feature gate in `v1.36`. ([#136066](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136066), [@serathius](https://github.com/serathius)) [SIG API Machinery]
- Removed event listing behavior when describing a deleted Pod from file using `kubectl describe -f`, ensuring consistent NotFound error handling across all resource types. ([#135281](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135281), [@scaliby](https://github.com/scaliby)) [SIG CLI]
- Renamed `PodGroupInfo` to `PodGroupState`, which may break custom scheduler plugins that use `Handle.WorkloadManager`. ([#136344](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136344), [@brejman](https://github.com/brejman)) [SIG Scheduling]

> - Promoted `InOrderInformers` to GA via the usage of `RealFIFO`. This means that `DeltaFIFO` will gradually be deprecated in favor of `RealFIFO` in internal implementations. ([#136601](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136601), [@michaelasp](https://github.com/michaelasp)) [SIG API Machinery]

Reviewer: 👍

## Urgent Upgrade Notes 

### (No, really, you MUST read this before you upgrade)

- Added support for running PreBind plugins in parallel in the scheduler framework to improve binding latency.

>   Action Required: Plugins can opt-in to parallel execution by returning `AllowParallel: true` from the `PreBindPreFlight` method. PreBind plugin implementations need to be updated to return `PreBindPreFlightResult` from the `PreBindPreFlight` method; returning nil retains the existing sequential behavior. ([#135393](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135393), [@tosi3k](https://github.com/tosi3k)) [SIG Node, Scheduling, Storage and Testing]

Author: In past, we've had release notes keep the `Action Required` part intact to convey specific actions that a user needs to take this particular release version.
@sayanchowdhury what's your take this release?

 
## Changes by Kind

### Dependency

- Fixed a bug where pod lifecycle hooks could run for their full duration when pods are terminated. ([#136598](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136598), [@dgrisonnet](https://github.com/dgrisonnet)) [SIG API Machinery, Auth, Cloud Provider, Node and Scheduling]

### API Change

- Added the `--concurrent-resourceclaim-syncs` flag to `kube-controller-manager` to configure ResourceClaim reconcile concurrency. ([#134701](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/134701), [@anson627](https://github.com/anson627)) [SIG API Machinery, Apps, Node and Testing]
- Added validation to prevent negative duration values for `imageMinimumGCAge`. ([#135997](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135997), [@ngopalak-redhat](https://github.com/ngopalak-redhat)) [SIG API Machinery and Node]
- Clarified documentation and comments to indicate that the `cpuCFSQuotaPeriod` kubelet config field requires the `CustomCPUCFSQuotaPeriod` feature gate when using non-default values. No functional changes introduced. ([#133845](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/133845), [@rbiamru](https://github.com/rbiamru)) [SIG Node and Release]

> - Corrected OpenAPI schema union validation for the `PodGroupPolicy` struct in `scheduling.k8s.io/v1alpha1`. ([#136424](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136424), [@JoelSpeed](https://github.com/JoelSpeed)) [SIG API Machinery and Scheduling]

Reviewer 2: "Corrected OpenAPI schema union validation for the `PodGroupPolicy` struct in `scheduling.k8s.io/v1alpha1`." -- the original one looks good to me.

- Fixed `fake.NewClientset()` to work properly with correct schema. ([#131068](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/131068), [@soltysh](https://github.com/soltysh)) [SIG API Machinery]
- Generated `fake.NewClientset` which replaces the deprecated `NewSimpleClientset` for `kube-aggregator` and `sample-apiserver`. ([#136537](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136537), [@soltysh](https://github.com/soltysh)) [SIG API Machinery]
- Promoted the `watch_list_duration_seconds` metric from ALPHA to BETA. ([#136086](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136086), [@richabanker](https://github.com/richabanker)) [SIG API Machinery, Instrumentation, Node and Testing]
- kube-apiserver: The `--audit-policy-file` config file now supports specifying `group: "*"` in resource rules to match all API groups. ([#135262](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135262), [@cmuuss](https://github.com/cmuuss)) [SIG API Machinery, Auth and Testing]

> - Kube-controller-manager: alpha gauge metrics for informer queue length are now published as `informer_queued_items{name=kube-controller-manager,group=<group>,resource=<resource>,version=<version>} <count>` ([#135782](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135782), [@richabanker](https://github.com/richabanker)) [SIG API Machinery, Architecture, Instrumentation and Testing]

Author: Similar Ques.
Should we include the technical implementation details for user facing documentation?

- Promoted workqueue metrics from ALPHA to BETA. ([#135522](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135522), [@petern48](https://github.com/petern48)) [SIG Architecture, Instrumentation and Testing]
- Removed the generally available feature gate `CSIMigrationPortworx`, which was locked and enabled since `v1.33`.
  Removed alpha feature gate `InTreePluginPortworxUnregister`.
  Removed Portworx volume plugin from in-tree plugins because all operations are redirected to CSI. ([#135322](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135322), [@carlory](https://github.com/carlory)) [SIG API Machinery, Apps, Auth, Node, Scalability, Scheduling, Storage and Testing]
- Added `ImageVolumeWithDigest` which includes the digest of image volumes in the container status. ([#132807](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/132807), [@iholder101](https://github.com/iholder101)) [SIG API Machinery, Apps, Node and Testing]

> - The `endpoints` field in `discovery.k8s.io/v1` `EndpointSlice` is now correctly defined as optional in the OpenAPI specification, matching the server's behavior. ([#136111](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136111), [@aojea](https://github.com/aojea)) [SIG Network]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Marked the `endpoints` field as optional in the OpenAPI spec for `discovery.k8s.io/v1` EndpointSlice. This matches server behavior and resolves validation issues. ([#136111](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136111), [@aojea](https://github.com/aojea)) [SIG Network]
```

Reviewer: Well, considering it as a component descriptor as per the [style guide ](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#use-a-general-descriptor-over-a-component-name), IMO, it shouldn't be in backticks.

- client-go: Informers can now enqueue new watch events while already-queued events are being processed. This avoids dropping watches during a burst of incoming events due to contention on slow processing. This behavior is controlled by the `UnlockWhileProcessing` client-go feature gate, which is enabled by default. ([#136264](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136264), [@michaelasp](https://github.com/michaelasp)) [SIG API Machinery and Scheduling]
- client-go: Improved informer resync processing to reduce contention on store locks between incoming events and handler updates, which may result in observable timing differences of handler invocations. This behavior is guarded by the `AtomicFIFO` feature gate, which is enabled by default in `v1.36` but can be disabled if needed to temporarily regain the previous behavior. ([#136008](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136008), [@michaelasp](https://github.com/michaelasp)) [SIG API Machinery]

> - client-go: Default informer behavior now updates store state with all the objects in a list or relist before calling handler `OnDelete`, `OnAdd`, or `OnUpdate` methods for individual items which were deleted, added, or removed. This ensures that the store state which can be inspected by handlers corresponds to a set of objects that existed at a particular resource version on the server. This behavior is guarded by the `AtomicFIFO` feature gate, which is enabled by default in `v1.36` but can be disabled if needed to temporarily regain the previous behavior. ([#135462](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135462), [@michaelasp](https://github.com/michaelasp)) [SIG API Machinery]

Author: I see L46 and L47 corresponds to different set of PRs but same [KEP](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/5647)
My thought - In case we remove it either from L46 or L47, it may not be explicitly implied for the end-user which feature gate to disable to revert back to previous behavior.

- kubeadm: Changed Node object patching behavior to retry on unknown (non-allowlisted) API errors within the polling duration instead of exiting early. ([#135776](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135776), [@neolit123](https://github.com/neolit123)) [SIG Cluster Lifecycle]
- Updated `kubectl get ingressclass` to display a `(default)` marker for the default IngressClass. ([#134422](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/134422), [@jaehanbyun](https://github.com/jaehanbyun)) [SIG CLI and Network]
- Kubernetes is now built with Go `v1.25.6`. ([#136465](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136465), [@cpanato](https://github.com/cpanato)) [SIG Release and Testing]
- Kubernetes is now built with Go `v1.25.6`. ([#136257](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136257), [@BenTheElder](https://github.com/BenTheElder)) [SIG Release]
- Kubernetes is now built with Go `v1.25.7`. ([#136750](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136750), [@BenTheElder](https://github.com/BenTheElder)) [SIG Release]
- Promoted the `RelaxedServiceNameValidation` feature gate to beta and enabled it by default.

>   Service names are now validated with `NameIsDNSLabel()`, relaxing the pre-existing validation. ([#136389](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136389), [@adrianmoisey](https://github.com/adrianmoisey)) [SIG Network]

Reviewer: Amazing 👍, Thanks for simplifying

- Promoted the `CSIServiceAccountTokenSecrets` feature gate to GA. ([#136596](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136596), [@aramase](https://github.com/aramase)) [SIG Auth and Storage]
- Promoted `kubectl kuberc` commands to beta. ([#136643](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136643), [@ardaguclu](https://github.com/ardaguclu)) [SIG CLI and Testing]
- The `ResourceClaim` controller now correctly handles unknown (non-pod) references in the `status.reservedFor` field by skipping them instead of halting the sync process. ([#136450](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136450), [@MohammedSaalif](https://github.com/MohammedSaalif)) [SIG Apps and Node]
- Updated cAdvisor to `v0.55.0` in vendor dependencies. ([#135829](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135829), [@dims](https://github.com/dims)) [SIG Node]
- Updated kube-dns to `v1.26.7`. ([#134394](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/134394), [@toredash](https://github.com/toredash)) [SIG Cloud Provider]

> - Updated some node e2e CI tests to use PyTorch-based e2e integration tests instead of TensorFlow. ([#136397](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136397), [@dims](https://github.com/dims)) [SIG Testing]

Reviewer 2: The labels are auto applied based on code. This one just changes to `test/` whereas the other touched node-parts.
The SIGs are good here.

> - Updated some node e2e CI tests to use PyTorch-based e2e integration tests instead of TensorFlow. ([#136398](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136398), [@dims](https://github.com/dims)) [SIG Node and Testing]

Reviewer: Maybe:
`Updated node performance e2e tests to use PyTorch Wide-Deep workload instead of TensorFlow.`

- Changed the behavior of default scheduler preemption plugin when preempting Pods that are in `WaitOnPermit` phase. They are now moved to the scheduler backoff queue instead of being marked as unschedulable. ([#135719](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135719), [@Argh4k](https://github.com/Argh4k)) [SIG Scheduling and Testing]
- Changed some error logs to info logs with verbosity level in `controller/resourcequota` and `controller/garbagecollector`. ([#136040](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136040), [@petern48](https://github.com/petern48)) [SIG API Machinery and Apps]
- Changed the `nodeGetCapabilities` method of `csiDriverClient` to return `NewUncertainProgressError` when receiving a non-final GRPC error. ([#135930](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135930), [@249043822](https://github.com/249043822)) [SIG Node and Storage]
- client-go: Fixed an unlikely deadlock during informer startup. ([#136509](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136509), [@pohly](https://github.com/pohly)) [SIG API Machinery]

> - Fixed a race condition in Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) where the same device could be allocated twice for different `ResourceClaims` when scheduling many pods very rapidly. Depending on whether DRA drivers check for this during `NodePrepareResources` (they should, but not all may implement this properly), the second pod using the same device could fail to start until the first one is done or (worse) run in parallel. ([#136269](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136269), [@pohly](https://github.com/pohly)) [SIG Node, Scheduling and Testing]

Reviewer: 👍

- kubelet: Fixed a nil pointer dereference when handling pod updates of mirror pods with the `NodeDeclaredFeatures` feature gate enabled. ([#136037](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136037), [@pravk03](https://github.com/pravk03)) [SIG Node]
- kube-apiserver: Fixed request latency annotation `apiserver.latency.k8s.io/total` in the audit log when request took more than `500ms`. ([#135685](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135685), [@chaochn47](https://github.com/chaochn47)) [SIG API Machinery]
- kubelet: Fixed a data race in the container manager. ([#136206](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136206), [@HirazawaUi](https://github.com/HirazawaUi)) [SIG Node]
- kubelet: Fixed a data race in pod allocated resources. ([#136226](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136226), [@HirazawaUi](https://github.com/HirazawaUi)) [SIG Node]
- kubelet: Fixed a data race in the status manager. ([#136205](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/136205), [@HirazawaUi](https://github.com/HirazawaUi)) [SIG Node]

> - Fixed issues in server side apply and client-go's `Extract{TypeName}()` and `Extract{TypeName}From()` functions where empty arrays and maps were incorrectly treated as absent, and atomic elements from associative lists were incorrectly duplicated. ([#135391](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/135391), [@jpbetz](https://github.com/jpbetz)) [SIG API Machinery, Architecture, Auth, CLI, Cloud Provider, Cluster Lifecycle, Network, Node, Scheduling and Storage]

Reviewer: 🚀 👍
